Okay, so now you know how to instal programmes using Brew
or certainly that was in the previous video.
There are, like I said, different ways
of installing programmes and another one
of those ways is using something called a gem or a RubyGem.
Now, as far as I remember, most modern Macs will come
with this gem installer already installed,
pre-installed on your Mac.
If that's not the case, you need
to head over to RubyGems.org and go ahead
and click on this, installing RubyGems.
Now, it leads with how to update the gem system.
So gem is like the Brew command that we met earlier
and the MPM command we'll meet in the next video.
Now if you don't have the RubyGems installed,
you go ahead and download, probably a zip file
is probably the best format, I would say.
Unpack it and then, as in unzip the file,
go in to that directory using a CD command
and running this Ruby setup and it will ask you about
some questions on how to actually set it up
and where you want to go and so on.
Like I said, I believe it's already installed
and a quick way of testing that is just by going
to your terminal and typing gem and here I get some output.
So this means gem is already installed.
Me personally, I've had some trouble
with this whole system with previous machines.
I've had a lot of trouble getting the right version
of Ruby and the right gems and so on,
they're the right package manager and I think I literally
just went through new machines until it worked.
So I don't have a lot of success with this
but it does work and there are some packages
that are only available inside of this gem system.
Most of them will be in Brew and I personally find a lot
of the utilities that I need inside of MPM
but it's worth showing you gems as well.
And one of those is this terminal notifier.
So I've got only a few gems personally installed.
One of them is something called LOL Commits
which takes a screenshot every time I do a commit message.
So I took a screenshot for every commit message I did
for the written version of this book, the book
of part version and then turned it into an animated GIF.
But this is another thing, this allows me
to post notifications to my Mac from the command lines.
So someone told me about this, it says what it does
and then it says to download you need
to do gem, instal Ruby notifier.
The thing to notice here is
in the read me it has dollar at the front.
Dollar means from the command line
so you don't copy all of that.
And it has sudo in square brackets.
Now, I ...
This is kind of a segway on to sudo as well.
We're gonna try and run the gem instal.
Where it's in square brackets it means to
don't try and instal it using,
don't worry about these options.
To start off with, you might need it.
However, I actually have just noticed
that I can also use Homebrew to instal
and personally I probably would.
But I want to show you gem.
So, gem instal terminal notifier,
I run it and we see what happens.
Right, so this is what I normally get.
It says you don't have permission
to write to this library RubyGems
and this is what the square brackets sudo
was referring to and sudo, what this means is
as a super user, do a thing.
And the super user is the root user.
Root is the one user that has
the permissions to do absolutely anything on this computer.
Now, I might be sharing this computer with a colleague.
That user doesn't have permissions
to my files unless I give them permission.
But the root user has permissions
to do anything it wants to.
Now nobody's logged in as the root user,
I'm logged in as are Rem, you're logged in as yourself
but sudo says run this command as root.
So we're gonna type sudo and then we're just gonna
paste that again and run it
and before any super user command can run,
it prompts you for your password.
It does, if you keep running another,
if you run another command very quickly
or in quick succession,
it won't keep prompting for your password.
There's like a two or three minute delay
until it stops asking for your password.
So I'm just gonna put that in
and then run the command again
and off it goes and instals.
Now, that was pretty quick to come back.
One thing I have personally noticed with gems is
that sometimes they take quite a while
or you have a slower internet connexion.
It doesn't give you any feedback as to what's going on.
So if it just kind of sits there with nothing going on,
it could mean that it's actually still running.
One quick way of working that out
is if you open your activity,
the activity monitor, and just kind of search for
gem just to see if something's running or Ruby.
I ten to just leave it for a few minutes
and it does actually finish.
So what do we instal?
We instal this terminal notifier,
hit enter, get a load of output.
Okay, let's have a look at the read me again.
Example usage.
There you go, let's just copy and paste that
and go ahead and run it.
And we see a piped message data.
So we could probably use this for hooking up some programmes.
I guess you have these lists and so on.
I'm not sure how I'd use the actions.
Yes, no and so on.
Maybe if I had like a little programme
that ran to check the weather on my computer
then it would do a terminal notifier message,
"It's going to rain."
There you go.
Maybe we can change the icon, I don't know.
But that is another way of installing programmes.
So next I'm going to show you MPM and kind
of the JavaScript world of package managers.